content: Derelict ship encounters (#9039)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/human/boarding missions.txt

				decline

mission "Boarding Derelict"
	boarding
	repeat
	invisible
	deadline 3
	source
		government "Derelict (Boardable)"
	destination "Earth"
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality entering nemesis vindictive staying
		to spawn
			has "derelict pirate beacon"
		fleet "pirate raid" 2
	on offer
		clear "derelict pirate beacon"
		conversation
			`You board the <origin> and look around its derelict hull, which appears to be in fairly stable condition. You could risk repairing it for a greater profit, or you could salvage what you can from the ship and leave the rest.`
			choice
				`	(Salvage the ship.)`
					goto salvage
				`	(Attempt to repair the ship.)`
			`	Deciding to go for the bigger score you attempt to repair the ship.`
			choice
				`	(Repair the engines first.)`
					goto engines
				`	(Repair the hull first.)`
					goto hull
				`	(Repair the power first.)`
			branch powersurge
				random < 80

> 			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and everything runs smoothly.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
```

					goto power(eh)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear your repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label hull(p)
			branch crumple
				random < 25
			`	It takes a while but you manage to stabilize the ship's hull. While doing so you managed to find and fix some broken wiring embedded in the hull, which could have caused a powersurge.`
			choice
				`	(Repair the engines.)`
					goto engines(hp)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear your repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label hull(ep)
			branch crumple
				random < 75
			`	It takes a while but you manage to stabilize the ship's hull. While doing so you managed to find and fix some broken wiring embedded in the hull, which could have caused a powersurge.`
			`	With the repairs finished you head to the cockpit to see if the <origin> starts without exploding. Prepared to bolt for the airlock should things go wrong, you start the ship.`
			branch fail
				random < 40
			`	The ship thrums to life, and with bated breath you wait for the sound of some system exploding, but nothing happens. Success! The ship is yours.`
				goto success
			label engines
			branch misfire
				random < 60

> 			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open, luckily the secondary valve is mechanical and doesn't need power, allowing it to close itself automatically, preventing the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open. Luckily the secondary valve is mechanical and doesn't need power, allowing it to close itself automatically and prevent the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`
```

			choice
				`	(Repair the hull next.)`
					goto hull(e)
				`	(Repair the power next.)`
					goto power(e)
			label engines(h)
			branch misfire
				random < 60

> 			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open. Luckily the secondary valve is mechanical and doesn't need power, allowing it to close itself automatically and  prevent the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open. Luckily the secondary valve is mechanical and doesn't need power, allowing it to close itself automatically and prevent the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`
```

					goto flee
			label engines(p)
			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open. Luckily you restored power, allowing the secondary valve to close itself automatically and prevent the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`
			choice
				`	(Repair the hull.)`
					goto hull(ep)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear your repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label engines(hp)
			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open. Luckily you restored power, allowing the secondary valve to close itself automatically and prevent the coolant from forcefully spraying out. With more caution, you finish up your repairs of the engines.`
			`	With the repairs finished you head to the cockpit to see if the <origin> starts without exploding. Prepared to bolt for the airlock should things go wrong, you start the ship.`
			branch fail
				random < 5
			action
			`	The ship thrums to life, and with bated breath you wait for the sound of some system exploding, but nothing happens. Success! The ship is yours.`
				goto success
			label power(h)
			branch powersurge
				random < 5

> 			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and everything runs smoothly.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
```

			choice
				`	(Repair the engines.)`
					goto engines(hp)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear your repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label power(e)
			branch powersurge
				random < 55

> 			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and everything runs smoothly.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
```

			choice
				`	(Repair the hull.)`
					goto hull(ep)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear your repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label power(eh)
			branch powersurge
				random < 15

> 			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and everything runs smoothly.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
```

				depart
			label crumple
			`	As you are patching up a segment of hull you notice that a deformation in it is slowly expanding, worse this is a structurally essential part of the hull. You quickly run back to your ship before the <origin> breaks apart.`
				depart
			label misfire
			`	As you are fixing the engine systems a valve bursts open, and with no power the secondary valve cannot close itself off, letting coolant uncontrollably fly into the hull of the ship. The force of the liquid sends a violent vibration shuddering through the ship. You quickly run back to your ship before the <origin> breaks apart.`
				depart
			label flee
			action
				payment 7500
			`	Wary of your own foolish repairs you decide to leave the ship alone, however you did manage to hang onto a little bit of scrap worth <payment> you found during your repairs.`
				depart
			label fail
			`	As the ship begins to thrum to life, a loud explosion rocks the ship!`
			choice
				`	(Run!)`

> 			`	You start running through the tight corridors of the ship, more explosions threatening to sweep you off your feet, and objects tumbling everywhere.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You start running through the tight corridors of the ship. Objects are tumbling everywhere, and more explosions threaten to sweep you off your feet.`
```

			choice
				`	(Run into the airlock.)`
					goto run
				`	(Dive for the airlock.)`
					goto dive
				`	(Slide into the airlock.)`

> 			`	As you slide across the floor, explosions erupt on both sides of you sending chunks of metal flying above your head, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you careen through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`

Reviewer: Making this consistent with the other two options.
```suggestion
			`	As you slide across the floor, explosions erupt on both sides of you, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you careen through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`
```

				depart
			label run
			`	As you run towards the airlock, explosions erupt on both sides of you, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you barge through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`
				depart
			label dive
			`	As you dive towards the airlock, explosions erupt on both sides of you, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you tuck and roll through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`
				depart
			label success
			branch beacon
				random < 15
			branch virus
				random < 5
				"credits" > 1000000
			action
				payment 65000

> 			`	Despite your best efforts to make the ship actually fly it just won't, but now you have all the time to loot as you please and even pilfer some outfits from the ship. However, before leaving the cockpit you find a credit chip sitting in the cockpit worth <payment>.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	Despite your best efforts to make the ship actually fly, it just won't. On the upside, now you have time to loot and pilfer some outfits from the ship as you please. Before leaving the cockpit you find a credit chip sitting in the cockpit worth <payment>.`
```

				decline
			label beacon
			action
				set "derelict pirate beacon"

> 			`	However, you soon notice a blinking light on the controls of the ship, it appears to be some kind of beacon. But what could it be signaling? The arrival of pirate ships entering the system gives you a pretty good guess as you race back to your ship.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	However, you soon notice a blinking light on the controls of the ship. You wonder what it could signal as you approach it, and once you get close enough you realize that it warns of the arrival of 'hostile spacecraft' entering the system. You now have a pretty good guess at what you're dealing with as you race back to your ship.`
```

				launch
			label virus
			action
				payment -200000
			`	However, moments later a screen lights up in the cockpit displaying something strange. Upon closer inspection you realize it's some form of malicious software, and it's attempting to hack into your ship!`
			`	You race back to your ship, quickly launching and destroying the <origin>, but by the time you manage to destroy the virus it has already hacked into your bank account and stolen <payment> credits from you.`
				depart
			label salvage
			`	Deciding not to risk it you quickly scour the ship for valuable scrap and outfits.`
			branch valuable
				random < 40
			action

> 				payment 22500

Reviewer: I would lower this a bit.
```suggestion
				payment 10000
```

> 			`	Upon a brief inspection of the ship you find little valuable, only managing to salvage a meager <payment> credits from the <origin>. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring an empty ship.`

Reviewer: There should probably be a choice of whether to detonate the ship or not.
```suggestion
			`	Upon a brief inspection of the ship you find few valuables, only managing to salvage a meager <payment> credits from the <origin>. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring an empty ship.`
```

				depart
			label valuable
			branch rare
				or
					and
						random < 25
						or
							not "derelict treasure map"
							not "derelict family investment"
					random < 5
			action
				payment 63000

> 			`	Searching through the ship you find that it is quite valuable and you manage to salvage a substantital amount from the <origin>, worth <payment> credits. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`

Reviewer: There should probably be a choice of whether to detonate the ship or not.
```suggestion
			`	Searching through the ship you find that it is quite valuable; you manage to salvage a substantial amount from the <origin>, worth <payment> credits. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`
```

				depart
			label rare
			branch quest
				or
					not "derelict treasure map"
					not "derelict family investment"
			action
				payment 475000

> 			`	Hidden away under a panel you find a small box. Opening it reveals a huge amount of credits worth <payment> credits! Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`

Author: All the forced depart conversation options also detonate the ship and if the ship doesn't get destroyed you'd be able to take the outfits from the ship which defeats the point of the risky path.

				depart
			label quest
			branch treasure
				not "derelict treasure map"
				or
					random < 50
					has "derelict family investment"
			action
				set "derelict family investment"
			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find a large black case filled with credits, investigating further you find a text log next to the case, you decide to take both of them with you. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`
				depart
			label treasure
			action
				set "derelict treasure map"
				payment 26500

> 			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find some kind of map tucked into a panel, it's easy to carry, allowing you time to further salvage a meager <payment> credits from the <origin>. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`

Reviewer: Same here.
```suggestion
			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find some kind of map tucked into a panel. It's easy to carry, allowing you time to further salvage a meager <payment> credits from the <origin>. Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`
```

		conversation
			"You haul captain Tarquin out of your brig and bring him to the portside police station, presenting evidence from your suit cameras and notarized witness statements compiled from your crew members attesting to his crimes of being involved in slavery. The officer on duty thanks you for the service you've rendered, and takes Tarquin into custody. He shoots one final black look at you that sends a shiver up your spine."
				decline

> mission "Boarding Derelict"

Reviewer 2: A note for future content creators: if we want to always have a 100% chance for a mission to spawn upon boarding a derelict ship, but we don't want to have to add more and more to this mission's conversation in order to add more derelict ship missions, then we can make this the "default" derelict boarding mission by giving it no `to offer` conditions, and any boarding missions we want to offer aside from this can have `priority` and `to offer` conditions that make them not appear 100% of the time. By giving other missions `priority`, it means we don't need to mess with the alphabetical naming of missions in order to get them to sometimes offer before this one hits its 100% offer chance. Alternatively, we could make this mission `minor` and all other derelict boarding missions non-minor.

> mission "Boarding Derelict"

Reviewer 2: A note for future content creators: if we want to always have a 100% chance for a mission to spawn upon boarding a derelict ship, but we don't want to have to add more and more to this mission's conversation in order to add more derelict ship missions, then we can make this the "default" derelict boarding mission by giving it no `to offer` conditions, and any boarding missions we want to offer aside from this can have `priority` and `to offer` conditions that make them not appear 100% of the time. By giving other missions `priority`, it means we don't need to mess with the alphabetical naming of missions in order to get them to sometimes offer before this one hits its 100% offer chance. Alternatively, we could make this mission `minor` and all other derelict boarding missions non-minor.

	boarding
	repeat
	invisible
	deadline 3
	source
		government "Derelict (Boardable)"

> 	destination "Earth"

Reviewer 2: We should have
```
to complete
	never
```
so that landing on Earth doesn't finish this mission while you're being chased and the deadline isn't up.

				depart
			label run
			`	As you run towards the airlock, explosions erupt on both sides of you, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you barge through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`
				depart
			label dive
			`	As you dive towards the airlock, explosions erupt on both sides of you, and you're sure that you look like an action hero as you tuck and roll through the airlock to safety. Having narrowly escaped death and not wishing to chance it, you quickly depart.`
				depart
			label success
			branch beacon
				random < 15
			branch virus
				random < 5
				"credits" > 1000000
			action
				payment 65000
			`	Despite your best efforts to make the ship actually fly, it just won't. On the upside, now you have time to loot and pilfer some outfits from the ship as you please. Before leaving the cockpit you find a credit chip sitting in the cockpit worth <payment>.`
				decline
			label beacon
			action
				set "derelict pirate beacon"

> 			`	However, you soon notice a blinking light on the controls of the ship. You wonder what it could signal as you approach it, and once you get close enough you realize that it warns of the arrival of 'hostile spacecraft' entering the system. You now have a pretty good guess at what you're dealing with as you race back to your ship.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	However, you soon notice a blinking light on the controls of the ship. You wonder what it could signal as you approach it, and once you get close enough you realize that it warns of the arrival of "hostile spacecraft" entering the system. You now have a pretty good guess at what you're dealing with as you race back to your ship.`
```
The ship will explode as a result of this, which isn't explained at all. The way this is described just seems like the hostile radar sound that the player's ship can make (given that you have that setting active) if a hostile enters the system, but the way that it actually plays out is more like the ship is booby trapped.

				random < 5
			action
			`	The ship thrums to life. With bated breath you wait for the sound of some system exploding, but nothing happens. Success! The ship is yours.`
				goto success
			label power(h)
			branch powersurge
				random < 5
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
			choice
				`	(Repair the engines.)`
					goto engines(hp)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear my repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label power(e)
			branch powersurge
				random < 55
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
			choice
				`	(Repair the hull.)`
					goto hull(ep)
				`	(Flee the ship for fear my repairs have made the ship more dangerous.)`
					goto flee
			label power(eh)
			branch powersurge
				random < 15
			`	With a few simple repairs you manage to get the ship's power systems operational and running smoothly.`
			`	With the repairs finished you head to the cockpit to see if the <origin> starts without exploding. Prepared to bolt for the airlock should things go wrong, you start the ship.`
			branch fail
				random < 25

> 			action

Reviewer 2: This action is empty. Was there intended to be something here, or should this be removed?

Author: Looks like there were a couple of these left in the branching from a different method I tried, they've been removed.

				depart
			label salvage
			`	Deciding not to risk it you quickly scour the ship for valuable scrap and outfits.`
			branch valuable
				random < 40
			action
				payment 10000
			`	Upon a brief inspection of the ship you find few valuables, only managing to salvage a meager <payment> from the <origin>.`
				goto detonate
			label valuable
			branch rare
				or
					and
						random < 25
						or
							not "derelict treasure map: ion cannons"
							not "derelict family investment"
					random < 5
			action
				payment 63000
			`	Searching through the ship you find that it is quite valuable; you manage to salvage a substantial amount from the <origin>, worth <payment>.`
				goto detonate
			label rare
			branch quest
				or
					not "derelict treasure map: ion cannons"
					not "derelict family investment"
			action
				payment 475000
			`	Hidden away under a panel you find a small box. Opening it reveals it is filled with <payment>.`
				goto detonate
			label quest
			branch treasure
				not "derelict treasure map: ion cannons"
				or
					random < 50
					has "derelict family investment"
			action
				set "derelict family investment"

> 			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find a large black case filled with 325000 credits. Investigating further you find a text log next to the case, and you decide to take both of them with you.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find a large black case filled with 325,000 credits. Investigating further you find a text log next to the case, and you decide to take both of them with you.`
```

				goto detonate
			label treasure
			action
				set "derelict treasure map: ion cannons"
				payment 26500
			`	As you search the ship for anything valuable you find some kind of map tucked into a panel. It's easy to carry, allowing you time to further salvage a meager <payment> from the <origin>.`
				goto detonate
			label detonate
			choice

> 				`	(Detonate the ship and leave.)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
				`	(Detonate the ship and leave so that others can't loot it.)`
```

				`	(Try and find a bit more salvage.)`
					goto continued
			`	Before you depart you detonate the ship to prevent any other derelict hunters from scouring the now empty ship.`
				depart
			label continued
			branch unlucky
				random < 75
			action
				payment 35000
			`	You attempt to search the ship for more valuables and luckily find some extra salvage worth <payment>. However, the hull begins to creak and groan, prompting a hasty return to your ship.`
			`	Not a moment too soon, as the <origin> begins to violently fall apart the moment your ship detaches.`
				depart
			label unlucky
			branch pirate
				random < 20

> 			`	You attempt to search the ship for more valuables but to avail. However, the hull begins to creak and groan, prompting a hasty return to your ship.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You attempt to search the ship for more valuables but to no avail. However, the hull begins to creak and groan, prompting a hasty return to your ship.`
```

			`	Not a moment too soon, as the <origin> begins to violently fall apart the moment your ship detaches.`
				depart
			label pirate

> 			`	You make your way to the cockpit in the hopes of finding any valuables, initially finding nothing you turn to leave and search more of the ship.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	You make your way to the cockpit in the hopes of finding any valuables. Initially finding nothing, you turn to leave and search more of the ship.`
```
